# T3SS-Heterogeneity
This is the repository for MatLab scripts contributing to Christina Lin and Daniel Lee's research on studying the dynamics of T3SS expression in Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
The scripts manipulate output files from Oufti, created by the Jacobs-Wagner lab and restructured by Casey Grun (github.com/caseygrun/oufti).
The scripts require MatLab 2018 version (or above) to run. Oufti from Casey Grun requires MatLab 2014b to run, and is currently optimized to work on Macs (to be updated).

Included in this repository are six MATLAB scripts and a sample data file. The parsing scripts are designed to batch process Oufti outputs given the location of .mat files output from Oufti and their corresponding fluoresence data. Three versions exist: one for images containing a single channel ('GFP_MFI_parse.m'), one for images containing two channels ('GFP_RFP_MFI_parse.m'), and one for images containing two fluoresence channels and a lineage tree ('GFP_RFP_MFI_LINEAGE_parse.m). Each of these files outputs a .dat or .csv file which can then be used for custom applications. Example files and outputs are provided for reference. 

Three simple analysis scripts are also provided; one, for training of control data to determine a threshold for T3SS on and off cells as described in the accompanying manuscript ('threshold_calculate.m'). Once this model is 'trained', another script, 'classify_colonies', will calculate a percentage of ON cells based on their fluoresence intensities, given a list of mean fluoresence intensities (e.g., as output by 'GFP_MFI_parse.m'). Finally, 'tree_analyze.m' performs change point analysis along lineage trajectories as also described in the accompanying manuscript, parsing .csv data files in the format of '\example_data_and_outputs\outputs\lineage\gfpmfi_lineage.csv'. 
